.Dd $Mdocdate$
.TH Quartz Manual
.Dt QUARTZ 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm quartz
.Nd the CLI way build and test Rest APIs
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm quartz
.Op Fl h
.Op Ar command Op Ar args
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command-line tool alternative to build, design and test Rest APIs without worrying about graphical interfaces.
.Pp
Built to be a version-controllable tool, wrapping a
.Nm
project in a Git repository is as easy as maintaining configuration files.
.
.Sh ENDPOINT REFS
In
.Nm ,
endpoints can be nested within other endpoints. In order to specify which endpoint we want to deal with, we use
.Em references
as paths.
.Pp
If we were to use an endpoint ":id" that is inside "users", our reference would be the nesting path to reach the desired endpoint.
.Pp
.Dl $ quartz use users :id
.Pp
.
.Sh COMMANDS
.
.Ss init [PATH]
Initialize a new
.Nm
project. It creates a .quartz directory with some essential subdirectories for the program to work smoothly.
.Pp
If no path is given, it takes the current directory by default.
.Pp
The program will exit with an error if the path already contains a 
.Nm
project, indicated by the existance of a .quartz directory.
.
.Ss create <REF...>
Create a new endpoint from a new reference.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXXXXXX"
.It \-\-url Ar URL
Sets the new endpoint's URL value.
.
.It \-\-method Ar METHOD
Sets the new endpoint's method value, usually being one of: GET, POST, PATCH, PUT, HEAD or OPTIONS.
.
.It \-\-header Ar HEADER
Sets a header entry for the new endpoint. It accepts a string in "key: value" format.
.Pp
This argument can be parsed multiple times to add as many headers as needed.
.
.Ss ls, list
Lists available endpoints.
.
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXXXXXX"
.It \-\-depth Ar N
Set a limit for how deep the listing goes. For reference, a depth of 1 would show top-level endpoints.
.Pp
Similar to how
.Xr git-branch 1
lists Git branches,
.Nm
will highlight the endpoint currently in use.
.
.It \-\-use
Switch the newly created endpoint. it is equivalent as chaining create and use commands.
.Pp
.Dl $ quartz create myendpoint && quartz use myendpoint
.
.Ss use <REF...>
Switch to endpoint reference. Using an endpoint allows for operations like "send", "edit" and other endpoint commands.
.
.Ss send
Sends the configured endpoint request and display the response status and body.
.Pp
For the time being, those are the only available informations. More ways to fetch specific response informations will be added soon.
.
.Ss rm, remove <REF...>
Deletes an endpoint based on its reference.
.
.Ss show
Display the configuration file for the endpoint in use.
.Pp
It displays the TOML file as is and includes URL, method, and headers. To get the request body, use
.Em body
command.
.
.Ss edit
Opens an editor to modify endpoint configuration. It uses the source file directly, so be careful not to break the endpoint.
.Pp
You can always
.Em remove
it if something goes wrong.
.Pp
This command uses your preferred editor defined in your
.Nm
preferences configuration, which is
.Xr vim 1
by default.
.
.Bl -tag -width "XXXXXXXXXXXX"
.It \-\-editor Ar EDITOR
Defines an editor to be used, which temporarily overrides any editor configured via
.Nm
preferences.
